# Introduction

Within this documentation, you'll find a thorough guide to the CI/CD
GitHub Actions workflows employed across the Open Horizon repositories.
It provides a clear outline of the automated processes that ensure each
component of Open Horizon functions seamlessly. As you navigate, this
reference will offer insights into the mechanics of our integration and
deployment routines, streamlining collaboration and comprehension.

# Repository: Anax

The Anax repository, an integral component of Open Horizon, hosts three
vital workflows. These include our continuous integration workflows:
E2E-test.yml, facilitating comprehensive end-to-end testing, and
build-push.yml, responsible for consistent artifact build-and-push
operations. Moreover, our release management is orchestrated through
release.yml, ensuring that our releases are both consistent and
efficient with no manual interventions.

## Workflow: build-push.yml

### Overview

This workflow is triggered upon a successful merge, subsequently
checking out the Anax repository and generating all supported artifacts.
These artifacts are then pushed to the designated repositories: Open
Horizon's Dockerhub registry and GitHub's container registry. These
artifacts are later utilized in the release process, ensuring a seamless
transition from development to production without manual intervention.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Push or Merge to the following branches of Anax

    -   `master`

    -   `v2.30`

    -   `v2.29`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^1]

    -   Variables

        -   `DOCKERHUB_REPO` - The Dockerhub Registry where the images
            will be pushed to.

        -   `RUN_NUMBER_OFFSET` - This number will be added to the
            action build number to achieve correct versioning.

    -   Secrets

        -   `DOCKER_TOKEN` - Token with access to push to the
            `DOCKERHUB_REPO` registry

        -   `DOCKER_USER` - Username associated with `DOCKER_TOKEN`

        -   `MACPKG_HORIZON_CLI_CRT` - The certificate file used to sign
            our MacOS packages

        -   `MACPKG_HORIZON_CLI_P12_BASE64_ENC` - The p12 binary used to
            sign our MacOS packages encoded into `BASE64`

        -   `MACPKG_HORIZON_CLI_P12_PASSWORD` - The password to the p12
            binary provided in the `MACPKG_HORIZON_CLI_P12_BASE64_ENC`
            secret

        -   `MACPKG_KEYCHAIN_PASSWORD` - Value is irrelevant, used to
            protect our private key on the hosted runner.

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Naming Conventions

    -   Docker Images

        -   Agbot: `<architecture>_agbot`

        -   Anax: `<architecture>_anax`

        -   K8s: `<architecture>_anax_k8s`

        -   K8s Cronjob: `<architecture>_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

        -   Cloud Sync Service: `<architecture>_cloud-sync-service`

        -   Edge Sync Service: `<architecture>_edge-sync-service`

        -   Debian Packages: `<architecture>_anax_debian`

        -   RPM Packages: `<architecture>_anax_rpm`

        -   MacOS Packages: `<architecture>_anax_macpkg`

    -   GitHub Actions Artifacts

        -   Anax Agent Files: `anax-agent-files-v<VERSION>`

        -   Docker Images:
            `anax-<platform>-<DOCKER IMAGE NAME>-image-v<VERSION>`

        -   Debian Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

        -   RPM Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-rpm-package-v<VERSION>`

        -   MacOS Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-mac-package-v<VERSION>`

-   Docker Image Tags

    -   Push `testing` if `master` branch triggered the workflow

    -   Push `testing_<branch>` if non-master branch triggered the
        workflow

-   Creating the Docker Images that hold the Deb/RPM/Mac Packages

    -   Rule 1: Dockerfile should be `FROM alpine:latest`

    -   Rule 2: Dockerfile should have `ADD ./<debs/rpms/macpkg>.tar.gz`

### Produced Artifacts

This workflow produces the following artifacts...

-   Docker Images

    -   `amd64_agbot`

    -   `amd64_anax`

    -   `amd64_anax_k8s`

    -   `amd64_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

    -   `amd64_cloud-sync-service`

    -   `amd64_edge-sync-service`

    -   `amd64_anax_debian`

    -   `amd64_anax_rpm`

    -   `amd64_anax_macpkg`

    -   `arm64_anax`

    -   `arm64_anax_k8s`

    -   `arm64_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

    -   `arm64_edge-sync-service`

    -   `arm64_anax_debian`

    -   `arm64_anax_macpkg`

    -   `ppc64el_anax`

    -   `ppc64el_anax_k8s`

    -   `ppc64el_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

    -   `ppc64el_edge-sync-service`

    -   `ppc64el_anax_debian`

    -   `ppc64el_anax_rpm`

    -   `armhf_anax_debian`

    -   `s390x_anax`

    -   `s390x_anax_k8s`

    -   `s390x_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

    -   `s390x_edge-sync-service`

    -   `s390x_anax_debian`

    -   `s390x_anax_rpm`

-   GitHub Actions Artifacts (expires 90 days after upload)

    -   `anax-agent-files-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_agbot-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_anax-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_anax_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_cloud-sync-service-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64_edge-sync-service-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-amd64-rpm-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-mac-amd64-mac-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-arm64_anax-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-arm64_anax_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-arm64_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-arm64_edge-sync-service-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-arm64-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-armhf-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el_anax-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el_anax_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el_edge-sync-service-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-ppc64el-rpm-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x_anax-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x_anax_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s-image-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x_edge-sync-service-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

    -   `anax-linux-s390x-rpm-package-v<VERSION>`

### Dependencies

This workflow has the following dependencies...

-   Internal Dependencies [^2]

    -   `configure_versions_script.sh`

    -   `docker_build_script.sh`

    -   `docker_push_script.sh`

    -   `docker_save_script.sh`

    -   `package_push.sh`

-   External Dependencies

    -   External Actions

        -   `actions/checkout@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/checkout>\
            Use: To checkout our repository into the hosted runner.

        -   `actions/upload-artifact@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/upload-artifact>\
            Use: To upload artifacts to GitHub actions artifacts

        -   `docker/setup-qemu-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/setup-qemu-action>\
            Use: Setup QEMU for Docker image building cross
            architecture.

        -   `docker/setup-buildx-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/setup-buildx-action>\
            Use: Setup BuildX for Docker image building cross
            architecture.

        -   `docker/login-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/login-action>\
            Use: Login to Dockerhub and GitHub Container Registry for
            image push. (Can be replaced with a run docker login
            command)

        -   `actions/setup-go@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/setup-go>\
            Use: Set up GoLang within our runner environment

        -   `uraimo/run-on-arch-action@v2`
            Author: Uraimo and Contributors\
            Link: <https://github.com/uraimo/run-on-arch-action>\
            Use: Set up Docker containers to execute build commands on
            specified architectures allowing us to build anax packages
            on other architectures when both GitHub doesn't support that
            architecture as a runner and the packaging tool doesn't
            support cross-architecture.

        -   `actions/download-artifact@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/upload-artifact>\
            Use: Get artifacts that were uploaded previously.

### Adding Architectures

Adding architectures to be built should be as simple as adding them to
the build matrix and conditional statements for each step depending on
what artifacts you want to be built. The scripts listed in internal
dependencies will also need to be updated to inclde the new
architecture. If you want a RPM package you'll likely create a new step
using the run-on-arch action.

### Possible Future Issues

-   Install Latest Docker Version\
    `- name: Install Latest Docker Version`

    -   Previous bugs have popped up from this, seems to be when a major
        change is made to the latest Docker version or the GitHub hosted
        runners change pre-installed software relating to docker/moby.

-   Configure MacOS Certificates\
    `- name: Configure Certificates`

    -   OpenSSL and the way MacOS handles certificates/signing varies
        largely between versions of MacOS. This step uses a work around
        to mark the certificate as trusted with no password/cli prompts.
        It does so by creating a new keychain and unlocking said
        keychain so adding a trusted cert doesn't prompt for a password.

## Workflow: release.yml

### Overview

Typically this workflow is triggered by the overarching Open Horizon
release manager and should only be manually triggered in very specific
use cases. This workflow activates in response to a workflow dispatch
initiated via the Actions interface or GitHub API. Utilizing specified
image and package version inputs, it retrieves the associated artifacts
from a previous build-push.yml workflow run. Subsequently, it tags the
Dockerhub images with both the 'latest' and the specified version tags.
Finally, a GitHub release page is generated.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Workflow Dispatch

    -   `via Actions Interface` [^3]

    -   `via GitHub Rest API` [^4]

### Inputs

This workflow has the following inputs...

-   `AGBOT_VERSION` - String - The version of the Agbot image and
    packages.

-   `ANAX_VERSION` - String - The version of the Anax images.

-   `ANAX_K8S_VERSION` - String - The version of the Anax K8s images.

-   `ANAX_CSS_VERSION` - String - The version of the Cloud Sync Service
    images.

-   `ANAX_ESS_VERSION` - String - The version of the Edge Sync Service
    images.

-   `IS_LATEST` - Boolean - Decides if the 'latest' tag should be pushed
    to Dockerhub

### Outputs

This workflow creates a GitHub Release with the following configuration.

-   Title: `v<version> Packages`

-   Tag: `v<version>`

-   Assets:

    -   `agent-install.sh`

    -   `horizon-agent-edge-cluster-files.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-deb-amd64.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-deb-arm64.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-deb-armhf.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-deb-ppc64el.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-deb-s390x.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-rpm-ppc64le.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-rpm-s390x.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-linux-rpm-x86_64.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-macos-pkg-arm64.tar.gz`

    -   `horizon-agent-macos-pkg-x86_64.tar.gz`

    -   `Source code`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^5]

    -   Variables

        -   `DOCKERHUB_REPO` - The Dockerhub Registry where the images
            will be pushed to.

    -   Secrets

        -   `DOCKER_TOKEN` - Token with access to push to the
            `DOCKERHUB_REPO` registry

        -   `DOCKER_USER` - Username associated with `DOCKER_TOKEN`

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Naming Conventions

    -   Docker Images

        -   Agbot: `<architecture>_agbot`

        -   Anax: `<architecture>_anax`

        -   K8s: `<architecture>_anax_k8s`

        -   K8s Cronjob: `<architecture>_auto-upgrade-cronjob_k8s`

        -   Cloud Sync Service: `<architecture>_cloud-sync-service`

        -   Edge Sync Service: `<architecture>_edge-sync-service`

        -   Debian Packages: `<architecture>_anax_debian`

        -   RPM Packages: `<architecture>_anax_rpm`

        -   MacOS Packages: `<architecture>_anax_macpkg`

    -   GitHub Actions Artifacts

        -   Anax Agent Files: `anax-agent-files-v<VERSION>`

        -   Docker Images:
            `anax-<platform>-<DOCKER IMAGE NAME>-image-v<VERSION>`

        -   Debian Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-deb-package-v<VERSION>`

        -   RPM Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-rpm-package-v<VERSION>`

        -   MacOS Packages:
            `anax-<platform>-<architecture>-mac-package-v<VERSION>`

-   Release Creation

    -   Rule: Release commit hash will be taken from the commit hash
        found in `amd64_agbot` image, which is the commit that triggered
        the creation of the agbot image.

### Dependencies

This workflow has no notable dependencies.

# Repository: Exchange API

## Workflow: build-push.yml

### Overview

This workflow is triggered upon a successful merge, subsequently
checking out the Exchange API repository and generating the amd64 docker
image. This artifact is then pushed to the designated repositories: Open
Horizon's Dockerhub registry and GitHub's container registry.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Push or Merge to the following branches of Exchange API...

    -   `master`

    -   `v2.87`

    -   `v2.110`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^6]

    -   Variables

        -   `DOCKERHUB_REPO` - The Dockerhub Registry where the images
            will be pushed to.

    -   Secrets

        -   `DOCKER_TOKEN` - Token with access to push to the
            `DOCKERHUB_REPO` registry

        -   `DOCKER_USER` - Username associated with `DOCKER_TOKEN`

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Naming Conventions

    -   Docker Images

        -   Exchange Image: `amd64_exchange-api`

-   Docker Image Tags

    -   Push `testing` if `master` branch triggered the workflow

### Produced Artifacts

This workflow produces the following artifacts...

-   Docker Images

    -   `amd64_exchange-api`

### Dependencies

This workflow has the following dependencies...

-   External Dependencies

    -   External Actions

        -   `actions/checkout@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/checkout>\
            Use: To checkout our repository into the hosted runner.

        -   `docker/login-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/login-action>\
            Use: Login to Dockerhub and GitHub Container Registry for
            image push. (Can be replaced with a run docker login
            command)

        -   `coursier/setup-action@v1`
            Author: Coursier\
            Link: <https://github.com/coursier/setup-action>\
            Use: A GitHub Action to install Coursier and use it to
            install Java and Scala CLI tools.

### Possible Future Issues

-   Install Latest Docker Version\
    `- name: Install Latest Docker Version`

    -   Previous bugs have popped up from this, seems to be when a major
        change is made to the latest Docker version or the GitHub hosted
        runners change pre-installed software relating to docker/moby.

# Repository: FDO Support

## Workflow: build-push.yml

### Overview

This workflow is triggered upon a successful merge, subsequently
checking out the FDO-Support repository and generating all supported
artifacts. These artifacts are then pushed to the designated
repositories: Open Horizon's Dockerhub registry and GitHub's container
registry.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Push or Merge to the following branches of FDO-Support

    -   `main`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^7]

    -   Variables

        -   `DOCKERHUB_REPO` - The Dockerhub Registry where the images
            will be pushed to.

        -   `RUN_NUMBER_OFFSET` - This number will be added to the
            action build number to achieve correct versioning.

    -   Secrets

        -   `DOCKER_TOKEN` - Token with access to push to the
            `DOCKERHUB_REPO` registry

        -   `DOCKER_USER` - Username associated with `DOCKER_TOKEN`

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Naming Conventions

    -   Docker Images

        -   FDO Image: `fdo-owner-services`

-   Docker Image Tags

    -   Push `testing` if `master` branch triggered the workflow

### Produced Artifacts

This workflow produces the following artifacts...

-   Docker Images

    -   `fdo-owner-services`

### Dependencies

This workflow has the following dependencies...

-   External Dependencies

    -   External Actions

        -   `actions/checkout@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/checkout>\
            Use: To checkout our repository into the hosted runner.

        -   `docker/login-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/login-action>\
            Use: Login to Dockerhub and GitHub Container Registry for
            image push. (Can be replaced with a run docker login
            command)

        -   `actions/setup-go@v2`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/setup-go>\
            Use: Set up GoLang within our runner environment

### Possible Future Issues

-   Install Latest Docker Version\
    `- name: Install Latest Docker Version`

    -   Previous bugs have popped up from this, seems to be when a major
        change is made to the latest Docker version or the GitHub hosted
        runners change pre-installed software relating to docker/moby.

# Repository: Vault Exchange Auth

## Workflow: build-push.yml

### Overview

This workflow is triggered upon a successful merge, subsequently
checking out the vault-exchange-auth repository and generating all
supported artifacts. These artifacts are then pushed to the designated
repositories: Open Horizon's Dockerhub registry and GitHub's container
registry.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Push or Merge to the following branches of Vault

    -   `master`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^8]

    -   Variables

        -   `DOCKERHUB_REPO` - The Dockerhub Registry where the images
            will be pushed to.

        -   `RUN_NUMBER_OFFSET` - This number will be added to the
            action build number to achieve correct versioning.

    -   Secrets

        -   `DOCKER_TOKEN` - Token with access to push to the
            `DOCKERHUB_REPO` registry

        -   `DOCKER_USER` - Username associated with `DOCKER_TOKEN`

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Naming Conventions

    -   Docker Images

        -   Vault Image: `amd64_vault`

-   Docker Image Tags

    -   Push `testing` if `master` branch triggered the workflow

### Produced Artifacts

This workflow produces the following artifacts...

-   Docker Images

    -   `amd64_vault`

### Dependencies

This workflow has the following dependencies...

-   External Dependencies

    -   External Actions

        -   `actions/checkout@v3`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/checkout>\
            Use: To checkout our repository into the hosted runner.

        -   `docker/login-action@v2`
            Author: Docker\
            Link: <https://github.com/docker/login-action>\
            Use: Login to Dockerhub and GitHub Container Registry for
            image push. (Can be replaced with a run docker login
            command)

        -   `actions/setup-go@v2`
            Author: GitHub\
            Link: <https://github.com/actions/setup-go>\
            Use: Set up GoLang within our runner environment

### Possible Future Issues

-   Install Latest Docker Version\
    `- name: Install Latest Docker Version`

    -   Previous bugs have popped up from this, seems to be when a major
        change is made to the latest Docker version or the GitHub hosted
        runners change pre-installed software relating to docker/moby.

# Repository: Examples

## Workflow: release.yml

### Overview

Typically this workflow is triggered by the overarching Open Horizon
release manager and should only be manually triggered in very specific
use cases. This workflow activates in response to a workflow dispatch
initiated via the Actions interface or GitHub API. Utilizing the version
JSON inputted, it creates the tested versions file and subsequently
generates the examples release with said file.

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Workflow Dispatch

    -   `via Actions Interface` [^9]

    -   `via GitHub Rest API` [^10]

### Inputs

This workflow has the following inputs...

-   `versionFileJSON` - String - The file containing all the versions
    (example below)

    ``` {.json language="json"}
    {   
        "amd64_agbot": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_anax": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_anax_k8s": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_cloud-sync-service": "1.10.1-1498",
        "amd64_edge-sync-service": "1.10.1-1498",
        "amd64_exchange-api": "2.117.0-1163",
        "amd64_vault": "1.1.2-806",
        "fdo-owner-services": "2.31.0-1498",
        "sdo-owner-services": "1.11.16-1083"
    }
    ```

### Outputs

This workflow creates a GitHub Release with the following configuration.

-   Title: `v<version>`

-   Tag: `v<version>`

-   Assets:

    -   `openhorizon-tested-versions.txt`

    -   `Source code`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to no variables or secrets.

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Release Creation

    -   Rule: Release commit hash will be taken from the latest commit
        hash found in the branch that is related to the version. If said
        branch doesn't exist for the version it is likely that it is the
        latest version and commit hash will be taken from master branch.

### Dependencies

This workflow has no notable dependencies.

# Repository: Open Horizon Release

Open Horizon Releases is a central repository aimed at managing and
coordinating the release process for various Open Horizon components.

## Workflow: release.yml

### Overview

In anticipation of an Open Horizon component release, this workflow is
typically initiated manually. This workflow activates in response to a
workflow dispatch initiated via the Actions interface or GitHub API.
Utilizing the version JSON inputted, it triggers the release.yml
workflows of both Anax and Exchange repositories. Upon successful
execution, it generates its release, consolidating version details and
links to the component releases within their specific repositories.\"

### Triggers

This workflow is triggered by the following...

-   Workflow Dispatch

    -   `via Actions Interface` [^11]

    -   `via GitHub Rest API` [^12]

### Inputs

This workflow has the following inputs...

-   `versionFileJSON` - String - The file containing all the versions
    (example below)

    ``` {.json language="json"}
    {   
        "amd64_agbot": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_anax": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_anax_k8s": "2.31.0-1498",
        "amd64_cloud-sync-service": "1.10.1-1498",
        "amd64_edge-sync-service": "1.10.1-1498",
        "amd64_exchange-api": "2.117.0-1163",
        "amd64_vault": "1.1.2-806",
        "fdo-owner-services": "2.31.0-1498",
        "sdo-owner-services": "1.11.16-1083"
    }
    ```

-   `INCREMENT_MAJOR_VERSION` - Boolean - Decides if the major (X.0.0)
    version should be incremented.

-   `INCREMENT_MINOR_VERSION` - Boolean - Decides if the minor (0.X.0)
    version should be incremented.

-   `INCREMENT_PATCH_VERSION` - Boolean - Decides if the patch (0.0.X)
    version should be incremented.

-   `IS_LATEST` - Boolean - Decides if the latest tags get pushed to
    Dockerhub for releases such as Anax.

### Outputs

This workflow creates a GitHub Release with the following configuration.

-   Title: `Open Horizon Release v<version>`

-   Tag: `v<version>`

-   Release Notes: (contains links to Anax and Examples releases)

-   Assets:

    -   `Released_Versions.json`

    -   `Source code`

### Variables and Secrets

The workflow needs access to the following variables and secrets...

-   Repository Level [^13]

    -   Variables

        -   `OPENHORIZON_RELEASE_VERSION` - The current version of Open
            Horizon.

    -   Secrets

        -   `OPENHORIZON_RELEASE_MANAGER_TOKEN` - GitHub token that has
            organization level 'repo' scope. Needs at minimum 'repo' for
            Open Horizon Release, Anax, and Examples.

### Conventions

This workflow will follow the following conventions...

-   Release Creation

    -   Rule: Release commit hash is not specified and will be latest in
        main branch.

    -   Rule: If increment version is set, the version used in the Open
        Horizon Release will always be the variable
        `OPENHORIZON_RELEASE_VERSION` post-increment. If you want to use
        the version that the variable is currently set to, do not
        increment.

-   Version Increment: When incrementing the version, any less
    significant versions will be set to 0. For example incrementing the
    minor version of 1.3.5 results in 1.4.0 as the patch version is less
    significant.

### Dependencies

This workflow has no notable dependencies.

[^1]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository $\rightarrow$
    Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables $\rightarrow$ Actions.

[^2]: Typically found in: .github/scripts

[^3]: <https://github.com/open-horizon/anax/actions/workflows/release.yml>

[^4]: <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/workflows?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-workflow-dispatch-event>

[^5]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository $\rightarrow$
    Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables $\rightarrow$ Actions.

[^6]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository $\rightarrow$
    Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables $\rightarrow$ Actions.

[^7]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository $\rightarrow$
    Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables $\rightarrow$ Actions.

[^8]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository $\rightarrow$
    Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables $\rightarrow$ Actions.

[^9]: <https://github.com/open-horizon/examples/actions/workflows/release.yml>

[^10]: <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/workflows?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-workflow-dispatch-event>

[^11]: <https://github.com/open-horizon/open-horizon-release/actions/workflows/release.yml>

[^12]: <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/actions/workflows?apiVersion=2022-11-28#create-a-workflow-dispatch-event>

[^13]: To set these variables, follow this path: Repository
    $\rightarrow$ Settings $\rightarrow$ Secrets and Variables
    $\rightarrow$ Actions.
